tools/README.md, before:

## TOC
- [Why collect the tools?](#why-collect-the-tools-)
- [List of Tool](#list-of-tool)
- [How to Contribute this](#how-to-contribute-this)

## Why collect the tools?
Spending a lot of time on applying DevSecOps is searching, comparing, and making decisions about tools. These tool lists are a good way to help you reduce unnecessary time and apply them quickly 😎

## List of Tool
| Type | Name | Description | Popularity | Language |
| ---------- | :---------- | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: | 
| Build/SAST  | [SonarQube](https://www.sonarqube.org/) |  SonarQube is an open-source platform for continuous inspection of code quality to perform automatic reviews with static analysis of code to detect bugs, code smells, and security vulnerabilities on 20+ programming languages.|![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=&message=it's%20not%20github&color=gray)|![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=&message=it's%20not%20github&color=gray)
| Build/SAST | [codeql](https://github.com/github/codeql) | CodeQL | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/github/codeql) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/github/codeql) |
| Build/SAST | [ggshield](https://github.com/GitGuardian/ggshield) | An open source CLI from GitGuardian to detect 350+ types of hardcoded secrets and 70+ IaC misconfigurations | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/GitGuardian/ggshield) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/GitGuardian/ggshield) |
| Build/SAST | [semgrep](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep) | Lightweight static analysis for many languages. Find bug variants with patterns that look like source code. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/returntocorp/semgrep) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/returntocorp/semgrep) |
| Build/SAST | [sonarcloud-github-action](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action) | Integrate SonarCloud code analysis to GitHub Actions | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action) |
| Build/SECRET-MANAGE | [kamus](https://github.com/Soluto/kamus) | An open source, git-ops, zero-trust secret encryption and decryption solution for Kubernetes applications | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Soluto/kamus) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/Soluto/kamus) |
| Build/SECRET-MANAGE | [secrets-sync-action](https://github.com/google/secrets-sync-action) | A Github Action that can sync secrets from one repository to many others. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/google/secrets-sync-action) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/google/secrets-sync-action) |
| Build/SECRET-MANAGE | [vault-action](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-action) | A GitHub Action that simplifies using HashiCorp Vault ™ secrets as build variables. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/hashicorp/vault-action) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/hashicorp/vault-action) |
| Design/THREAT | [owasp-threat-dragon-desktop](https://github.com/mike-goodwin/owasp-threat-dragon-desktop) | An installable desktop variant of OWASP Threat Dragon | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mike-goodwin/owasp-threat-dragon-desktop) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/mike-goodwin/owasp-threat-dragon-desktop) |
| Design/THREAT | [pytm](https://github.com/izar/pytm) | A Pythonic framework for threat modeling | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/izar/pytm) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/izar/pytm) |
| Design/THREAT | [seasponge](https://github.com/mozilla/seasponge) | SeaSponge is an accessible threat modelling tool from Mozilla | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mozilla/seasponge) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/mozilla/seasponge) |
| Design/THREAT | [threagile](https://github.com/Threagile/threagile) | Agile Threat Modeling Toolkit | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Threagile/threagile) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/Threagile/threagile) |
| Operate and Monitor/COMPONENT-ANALYSIS | [dependency-track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) | Dependency-Track is an intelligent Component Analysis platform that allows organizations to identify and reduce risk in the software supply chain. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) |
| Operate and Monitor/K8S | [kube-hunter](https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-hunter) | Hunt for security weaknesses in Kubernetes clusters | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aquasecurity/kube-hunter) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/aquasecurity/kube-hunter) |
| Test/DAST | [action-baseline](https://github.com/zaproxy/action-baseline) | A GitHub Action for running the OWASP ZAP Baseline scan | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/zaproxy/action-baseline) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/zaproxy/action-baseline) |
| Test/DAST | [action-dalfox](https://github.com/hahwul/action-dalfox) | XSS scanning with Dalfox on Github-action | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/hahwul/action-dalfox) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/hahwul/action-dalfox) |
| Test/DAST | [action-full-scan](https://github.com/zaproxy/action-full-scan) | A GitHub Action for running the OWASP ZAP Full scan | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/zaproxy/action-full-scan) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/zaproxy/action-full-scan) |
| Test/DAST | [zaproxy](https://github.com/zaproxy/zaproxy) | The OWASP ZAP core project | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/zaproxy/zaproxy) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/zaproxy/zaproxy) |
| Test/PENTEST | [faraday](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday) | Collaborative Penetration Test and Vulnerability Management Platform | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/infobyte/faraday) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/infobyte/faraday) |
| Test/PENTEST | [metasploit-framework](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploit-framework) | Metasploit Framework | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/rapid7/metasploit-framework) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/rapid7/metasploit-framework) |
| Test/PENTEST | [monkey](https://github.com/guardicore/monkey) | Infection Monkey - An automated pentest tool | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/guardicore/monkey) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/guardicore/monkey) |
| Test/PENTEST | [nuclei](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei) | Fast and customizable vulnerability scanner based on simple YAML based DSL. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/projectdiscovery/nuclei) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/projectdiscovery/nuclei) |
| Test/PENTEST | [ptf](https://github.com/trustedsec/ptf) | The Penetration Testers Framework (PTF) is a way for modular support for up-to-date tools. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/trustedsec/ptf) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/trustedsec/ptf) |

## How to Contribute this
Please read [Contributing](https://github.com/hahwul/DevSecOps/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) document!

Commit message:

Add trivy, prowler, gitleaks tool

tools/README.md, after:

## TOC
- [Why collect the tools?](#why-collect-the-tools-)
- [List of Tool](#list-of-tool)
- [How to Contribute this](#how-to-contribute-this)

## Why collect the tools?
Spending a lot of time on applying DevSecOps is searching, comparing, and making decisions about tools. These tool lists are a good way to help you reduce unnecessary time and apply them quickly 😎

## List of Tool
| Type | Name | Description | Popularity | Language |
| ---------- | :---------- | :----------: | :----------: | :----------: | 
| Build/SAST | [Gitleaks](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks) | Gitleaks is a SAST tool for detecting hardcoded secrets like API keys, tokens, and passwords in Git repositories, providing a CLI, GitHub Action, and pre-commit hooks for secret detection. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/gitleaks/gitleaks) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/gitleaks/gitleaks) |
| Build/SAST  | [SonarQube](https://www.sonarqube.org/) |  SonarQube is an open-source platform for continuous inspection of code quality to perform automatic reviews with static analysis of code to detect bugs, code smells, and security vulnerabilities on 20+ programming languages.|![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=&message=it's%20not%20github&color=gray)|![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=&message=it's%20not%20github&color=gray)
| Build/SAST | [codeql](https://github.com/github/codeql) | CodeQL | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/github/codeql) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/github/codeql) |
| Build/SAST | [ggshield](https://github.com/GitGuardian/ggshield) | An open source CLI from GitGuardian to detect 350+ types of hardcoded secrets and 70+ IaC misconfigurations | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/GitGuardian/ggshield) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/GitGuardian/ggshield) |
| Build/SAST | [semgrep](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep) | Lightweight static analysis for many languages. Find bug variants with patterns that look like source code. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/returntocorp/semgrep) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/returntocorp/semgrep) |
| Build/SAST | [sonarcloud-github-action](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action) | Integrate SonarCloud code analysis to GitHub Actions | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action) |
| Build/SECRET-MANAGE | [kamus](https://github.com/Soluto/kamus) | An open source, git-ops, zero-trust secret encryption and decryption solution for Kubernetes applications | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Soluto/kamus) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/Soluto/kamus) |
| Build/SECRET-MANAGE | [secrets-sync-action](https://github.com/google/secrets-sync-action) | A Github Action that can sync secrets from one repository to many others. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/google/secrets-sync-action) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/google/secrets-sync-action) |
| Build/SECRET-MANAGE | [vault-action](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-action) | A GitHub Action that simplifies using HashiCorp Vault ™ secrets as build variables. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/hashicorp/vault-action) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/hashicorp/vault-action) |
| Design/THREAT | [owasp-threat-dragon-desktop](https://github.com/mike-goodwin/owasp-threat-dragon-desktop) | An installable desktop variant of OWASP Threat Dragon | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mike-goodwin/owasp-threat-dragon-desktop) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/mike-goodwin/owasp-threat-dragon-desktop) |
| Design/THREAT | [pytm](https://github.com/izar/pytm) | A Pythonic framework for threat modeling | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/izar/pytm) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/izar/pytm) |
| Design/THREAT | [seasponge](https://github.com/mozilla/seasponge) | SeaSponge is an accessible threat modelling tool from Mozilla | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mozilla/seasponge) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/mozilla/seasponge) |
| Design/THREAT | [threagile](https://github.com/Threagile/threagile) | Agile Threat Modeling Toolkit | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Threagile/threagile) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/Threagile/threagile) |
| Operate and Monitor/COMPONENT-ANALYSIS | [dependency-track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) | Dependency-Track is an intelligent Component Analysis platform that allows organizations to identify and reduce risk in the software supply chain. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) |
| Operate and Monitor/K8S | [kube-hunter](https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-hunter) | Hunt for security weaknesses in Kubernetes clusters | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aquasecurity/kube-hunter) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/aquasecurity/kube-hunter) |
| Operate and Monitor/SECURITY-AUDIT | [Prowler](https://github.com/prowler-cloud/prowler) | Prowler is a security tool for AWS, providing over 100 checks for compliance with standards like CIS, GDPR, and HIPAA, and auditing AWS account configurations. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/prowler-cloud/prowler) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/prowler-cloud/prowler) |
| Operate and Monitor/SECURITY-SCAN | [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy) | Trivy is an open-source, all-in-one security scanner for container images, file systems, and Git repositories, detecting vulnerabilities and misconfigurations. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aquasecurity/trivy) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/aquasecurity/trivy) |
| Test/DAST | [action-baseline](https://github.com/zaproxy/action-baseline) | A GitHub Action for running the OWASP ZAP Baseline scan | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/zaproxy/action-baseline) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/zaproxy/action-baseline) |
| Test/DAST | [action-dalfox](https://github.com/hahwul/action-dalfox) | XSS scanning with Dalfox on Github-action | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/hahwul/action-dalfox) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/hahwul/action-dalfox) |
| Test/DAST | [action-full-scan](https://github.com/zaproxy/action-full-scan) | A GitHub Action for running the OWASP ZAP Full scan | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/zaproxy/action-full-scan) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/zaproxy/action-full-scan) |
| Test/DAST | [zaproxy](https://github.com/zaproxy/zaproxy) | The OWASP ZAP core project | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/zaproxy/zaproxy) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/zaproxy/zaproxy) |
| Test/PENTEST | [faraday](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday) | Collaborative Penetration Test and Vulnerability Management Platform | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/infobyte/faraday) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/infobyte/faraday) |
| Test/PENTEST | [metasploit-framework](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploit-framework) | Metasploit Framework | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/rapid7/metasploit-framework) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/rapid7/metasploit-framework) |
| Test/PENTEST | [monkey](https://github.com/guardicore/monkey) | Infection Monkey - An automated pentest tool | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/guardicore/monkey) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/guardicore/monkey) |
| Test/PENTEST | [nuclei](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei) | Fast and customizable vulnerability scanner based on simple YAML based DSL. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/projectdiscovery/nuclei) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/projectdiscovery/nuclei) |
| Test/PENTEST | [ptf](https://github.com/trustedsec/ptf) | The Penetration Testers Framework (PTF) is a way for modular support for up-to-date tools. | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/trustedsec/ptf) | ![](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/trustedsec/ptf) |

## How to Contribute this
Please read [Contributing](https://github.com/hahwul/DevSecOps/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) document!
